# MPL3115A2 Module

This module contains the driver for NXP MPL3115A2 Pressure, Altitude and Temperature sensor.

The MPL3115A2 is capable of direct I2C communication; the pressure and temperature data is fed into a high resolution ADC to provide fully compensated and digitized outputs for pressure in Pascals and temperature in °C.

The compensated pressure output can then be converted to altitude (utilizing the formula stated in Section 8.1.3 “Pressure/altitude” of the [datasheet](http://www.nxp.com/assets/documents/data/en/data-sheets/MPL3115A2.pdf) or putting the sensor in altimeter operating mode) provided in meters.


**`class MPL3115A2(i2cdrv, addr=0x60, clk=400000)`**

Creates an instance of a new MPL3115A2.


**Arguments:**

    
-	**i2cdrv** – I2C Bus used ‘( I2C0, … )’
-	**addr** – Slave address, default 0x60
-	**clk** – Clock speed, default 400kHz


Example:

```py
from nxp.mpl3115a2 import mpl3115a2

...

mpl = mpl3115a2.MPL3115A2(I2C0)
mpl.start()
mpl.init()
alt = mpl.get_alt()
pres = mpl.get_pres()
```

**`init(osr=0)`**

Initialize the MPL3115A2 setting the oversample rate value.


**Arguments:** **osr** – set the oversample rate value (from 0 to 7), default 0.


| OSR Value

 | Oversample Ratio

 | Data Ready

 |
| --------- | ---------------- | ---------- |
| 0

         | 1

                | 6 ms

       |
| 1

         | 2

                | 10 ms

      |
| 2

         | 4

                | 18 ms

      |
| 3

         | 8

                | 34 ms

      |
| 4

         | 16

               | 66 ms

      |
| 5

         | 32

               | 130 ms

     |
| 6

         | 64

               | 258 ms

     |
| 7

         | 128

              | 512 ms

     |

**`get_raw_alt()`**

Retrieves the current altitude data from the sensor as raw value.

Returns raw_a.


**get_raw_pres()**

Retrieves the current pressure data from the sensor as raw value.

Returns raw_p.


---
#### `#!py3 get_raw_temp()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 get_raw_temp()`"

Retrieves the current temperature data from the sensor as raw value.

Returns raw_t


---
#### `#!py3 get_alt()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 get_alt()`"

Calculates, from measured pressure, the current altitude data as value in meters.

Returns altitude


---
#### `#!py3 get_pres()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 get_pres()`"

Retrieves the current pressure data from the sensor as calibrate value in Pa.

Returns pres


---
#### `#!py3 get_temp()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 get_temp()`"

Retrieves the current temperature data from the sensor as calibrate value in °C.

Returns temp
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbNTM5OTg0ODEyXX0=
-->