# SSD1306 Module

This Module exposes all functionalities of Solomon SSD1306 OLED Display driver ([datasheet](https://www.olimex.com/Products/Modules/LCD/MOD-OLED-128x64/resources/SSD1306.pdf)).
.. **`class: SSD1306(drv, cs, rst, dc, clock=8000000)`**:

Creates an intance of a new SSD1306 using SPI.

SSD1306SPI must be set to ‘true’ in the configuration yml.


* **param spidrv:** SPI Bus used ‘( SPI0, … )’
* **param cs:** Chip Select
* **param rst:** Reset pin
* **param dc:** Data/Command control pin
* **param clk:** Clock speed, default 8MHz


Example:

```py
from solomon.ssd1306 import ssd1306

...

oled = ssd1306.SSD1306SPI(SPI0,D17,D16,D6)
oled.init()
oled.on()
```

<!-- class: SSD1306(drv, rst, clock=400000):

Creates an intance of a new SSD1306 using I2C.

SSD1306I2C must be set to 'true' in the configuration yml

:param drv: I2C Bus used '( I2C0, ... )'
:param rst: Reset pin, optional
:param sa0: Device address bit, default 0
:param clk: Clock speed, default 400kHz

Example: ::

    from solomon.ssd1306 import ssd1306

    ...

    oled = ssd1306.SSD1306(I2C0,rst=D17,clock=400000)
    oled.init()
    oled.on( -->

**`init(screen_width=96, screen_height=40)`**

Initialize the SSD1306 setting all internal registers and the display dimensions in pixels.


**Arguments:**

    
* **screen_width** – width in pixels of the display (max 128); default 96
* **screen_height** – height in pixels of the display (max 64); default 40



**`on()`**

Turns on the display.


**`off()`**

Turns off the display.


**`invert()`**

Sets the display in complementary mode.


**`normal()`**

Sets the display in normal mode.


**`set_contrast(contrast=0x7F)`**

Sets the contrast of the display.

**Arguments**: **contrast** – value of the contrast to be set (from 0 to 255), default 0x7F.



**`clear()`**

Clears the display.


**`fill_screen()`**

Fills the entire display (white screen in normal mode).


**`fill_rect(x, y, w, h, fill=True)`**

Draws a filled rectangular area in the screen.


**Arguments:**

    
* **x** – x-coordinate for left high corner of the rectangular area
* **y** – y-coordinate for left high corner of the rectangular area
* **w** – width of the rectangular area
* **h** – height of the rectangular area
* **fill** (**bool**) – flag for filling the rectagnular area. If True draws white area, otherwise black area (in normal mode); default True


!!! note
	If the display is set in complementary mode (see `invert()` function), fill flag set to True will draw black area and set to False will draw a white area.


**`draw_img(image, x, y, w, h, fill=True)`**

Draws the image passed in bytearray format as argument.


**Arguments:**

    
* **bytes** – bytearray composing the image to draw in the oled display
* **x** – x-coordinate for left high corner of the image
* **y** – y-coordinate for left high corner of the image
* **w** – width of the image
* **h** – height of the image
* **fill** (**bool**) – flag for filling the image. If True draws image in standard color, otherwise draws the image in inverted color (display in normal mode); default True.


!!! note
	If the display is set in complementary mode (see `invert()` function), fill flag set to True will draw the image in inverted color and set to False will draw the image in normal color.

!!! note
	To obtain a converted image in hex array format, you can go and use this [online tool](http://www.digole.com/tools/PicturetoC_Hex_converter.php).

After uploading your image, you can resize it setting the width and height fields; you can also choose the code format (HEX:0x recommended) and the color format (“Black/White for all draw image function” recommended).

Clicking on the “Get C string” button, the tool converts your image with your settings to a hex string that you can copy and paste inside a bytearray in your project and privide to this function.


**`draw_pixel(x, y, fill=True)`**

Draws a single pixel in the screen.


**Arguments:**

    
* **x** – pixel x-coordinate
* **y** – pixel y-coordinate
* **fill** (**bool**) – flag for filling the pixel. If True draws white pixel, otherwise black pixel (in normal mode); default True.


!!! note
	If the display is set in complementary mode (see `invert()` function), fill flag set to True will draw black pixel and set to False will draw a white pixel.


**`draw_text(text, x=None, y=None, w=None, h=None, align=None, fill=True)`**

Prints a string inside a text box in the screen.


**Arguments:**

    
* **text** – string to be written in the display
* **x** – x-coordinate for left high corner of the text box; default None
* **y** – y-coordinate for left high corner of the text box; default None
* **w** – width of the text box; default None
* **h** – height of the text box; default None
* **align** – alignment of the text inside the text box (1 for left alignment, 2 for right alignment, 3 for center alignment); default None
* **fill**(**bool**) – flag for filling the text. If True draws white text in black background, othewise black text in white background (in normal mode); default True


!!! note
	If the display is set in complementary mode (see `invert()` function), fill flag set to True will draw black text in white background and set to False will draw a white text in black background.

!!! note
	If only text argument is provided, an automatic text box is created with the following values:

* x = 0
* y = 0
* w = min text width according to the font
* h = max char height according to the font
* align = 3 (centered horizontally)
* fill = True
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbODk2NzU3MzUzXX0=
-->