# CR02_LoRaWAN Module

This is a module for the XinaBox LoRaWAN implementation using [CR02](https://wiki.xinabox.cc/CR02_-_LoRa_with_ATmega328P_Core) as an I2C slave device with [CW02](https://docs.zerynth.com/latest/official/board.zerynth.xinabox_esp32/docs/index.html?highlight=cw02) as its master. CR02 operates in the 868MHz range.

## Using CR02_LoRaWAN Module

CR02_LoRaWAN module is dependant on a *.hex* file which must be uploaded to CR02 via IP01 before the module can be utilized. The file can be found [here](https://github.com/xinabox/arduino-LMIC/releases/tag/0.5.0) accompanied with instructions on flashing it to CR02.

Once flashed, CR02 can be used as a node to connect to The Things Network.

## CR02_TTN class


**`class CR02_TTN(drvname=I2C0, addr=8, clk=100000)`**

Creates an intance of the CR02_TTN class.


**Arguments:**

    
* **drvname** – I2C Bus used ‘( I2C0, … )’
* **addr** – Slave address, default 8
* **clk** – Clock speed, default 100kHz



**`init()`**

Sends the keys generated by The Things Network (TTN) application to CR02. CR02 then establishes a connection with TTN.
Raises an exeption if any error occurs during initialization.


**Arguments:**

    
* **appeui** – The appeui generated by TTN application
* **deveui** – The deveui generated by TTN application
* **appkey** – The appkey generated by TTN application
* **debug** – Set True to view debugging information on CR02. Can only be used with MD03 whereby the serial communication between CW02 and CR02 is seperated.



**`sendString(dataToSend="")`**

Sends a string of limit 30 bytes over the I2C bus to CR02. CR02 in turn sends the string to TTN.
Exception raised if unsuccessful.


**Arguments: dataToSend** – string to be sent to TTN.



**`sendNumber(numberToSend=0)`**

Sends a number of limit 30 bytes over the I2C bus to CR02. CR02 in turn sends the number to TTN.
Exception raised if unsuccessful.


**Arguments:** **sendNumber** – number to be sent to TTN.
