# TSL2561 Module

This module contains the driver for AMS TSL2561 Luminosity sensor integrating both infrared and full-spectrum photodiodes.
The TSL2561 is capable of direct I2C communication and is able to conduct specific light ranges from 0.1 - 40k+ Lux easily. Additionally, it contains two integrating analog-to-digital converters (ADC) that convert currents from the two photodiodes, simultaneously ([datasheet](http://ams.com/eng/content/download/250094/975485/file/TSL2560-61_DS000110_2-00.pdf)).


---
#### `#!py3 TSL2561()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 TSL2561(i2cdrv, addr=0x49, clk=400000)`"

Creates an intance of a new TSL2561.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```i2cdrv``` – I2C Bus used ‘( I2C0, … )’


    * ```addr``` – Slave address, default 0x49


    * ```clk``` – Clock speed, default 400kHz


Example:

```
from ams.tsl2561 import tsl2561

...

tsl = tsl2561.TSL2561(I2C0, addr=tsl2561.TSL_I2C_ADDRESS["LOW"])
tsl.start()
tsl.init()
lux = tsl.get_lux()
```

```NOTE```: This sensor has a dedicaded “Address” pin that allows to select 1 of 3 available address as shown in the table below.

| ADDR SEL Terminal Level

 | I2C Address

 | Zerynth Define

 |
| ----------------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| GND

                     | 0x29

        | addr = tsl2561.TSL_I2C_ADDRESS[“LOW”]

 |
| Float

                   | 0x39

        | addr = tsl2561.TSL_I2C_ADDRESS[“NORMAL”]

 |
| Vdd

                     | 0x49

        | addr = tsl2561.TSL_I2C_ADDRESS[“HIGH”]

   |

---
#### `#!py3 init()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 init(gain=1, timing=0, pack=1)`"

Initialize the TSL2561 setting the gain, timing and kind of package.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```gain``` – set the gain of the sensor (values allowed: 0 for gain=1x and 1 for gain=16x), default 1


    * ```timing``` – set the integration time value (from 0 to 2 - 0 for 13 ms, 1 for 101 ms, 2 for 402 ms), default 0


    * ```pack``` – set the kind of package for the correct lux calculation (values allowed: 0 for CS package and 1 for T,FN,CL package), default 1



---
#### `#!py3 get_raw_fullspectrum()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 get_raw_fullspectrum()`"

Retrieves the current raw value read on channel0 (full-spectrum photodiode).

Returns raw_fs


---
#### `#!py3 get_raw_infrared()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 get_raw_infrared()`"

Retrieves the current raw value read on channel1 (infrared photodiode).

Returns raw_ir


---
#### `#!py3 get_raw_visible()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 get_raw_visible()`"

Retrieves the difference between the current raw value read on channel0 and raw value on channel1 (visible spectrum).

Returns raw_vis = (raw_fs - raw_ir)


---
#### `#!py3 get_lux()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 get_lux()`"

Converts the raw sensor values to the standard SI lux equivalent (according to the sensor settings - gain, timing and kind of package).

Returns lux value or 0 if the sensor is saturated and the values are unreliable.
