# L76 Module

This module implements the Zerynth driver for the Quectel L76 GNSS chip ([Product page](https://www.quectel.com/product/l76.htm)).

The following functionalities are implemented:


* retrieve the current location fix if present


* retrieve the current UTC time

The driver starts a background thread continuously tracking the last available location fix. The frequency of fixes can be customized.
The driver support serial mode only.

Location fixes are obtained by parsing NMEA sentences of type RMC and GGA. Obtaining a fix or UTC time are thread safe operations.


**`class---
#### `#!py3 L76()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 L76(ifc, mode=SERIAL, baud=9600, clock=400000, addr=0x00, reset=None, reset_on=0)`**"

Create an instance of the L76 class.


** ```Arguments:**```

    
* **ifc**    * ```ifc``` – serial interface to use (for example `SERIAL1`, `SERIAL2`, etc…)
* **

    * ```mode**``` – one of SERIAL or I2C. Only SERIAL mode supported at the moment.
* **

    * ```baud**``` – serial port baudrate
* **

    * ```clock**``` – I2C clock frequency (not supported)
* **

    * ```addr**``` – I2C address (not supported)
* **

    * ```reset**``` – optional reset pin
* **

    * ```reset_on**``` – reset pin active level


Example:

```py
from quectel.l76 import l76

...

gnss = l76.L76(SERIAL1)
gnss.start()
mpl.init()
alt = mpl.get_alt()
pres = mpl.get_pres()
```

**`
---
#### `#!py3 start()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 start()`**"

Start the L76 and the receiver thread.


** ```Returns:** **```

    ```True**``` if receiver thread has been started, *```False*``` if already active.



**`---
#### `#!py3 stop()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 stop()`**"

Stop the L76 by using the lowest power consumption mode and terminates the receiver thread.
It can be restarted by calling start.


** ```Returns:** **```

    ```True**``` if receiver thread has been stopped, *```False*``` if already inactive.



**`pause()`**---
#### `#!py3 pause()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 pause()`"

Pause the L76 by putting it into standby mode. It can be restarted by calling resume.
Refer to the L76 documentation for details [here](https://www.quectel.com/UploadImage/Downlad/Quectel_L76_Series_Hardware_Design_V3.1.pdf).


**`resume()`**---
#### `#!py3 resume()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 resume()`"

Wake up the L76 from standby mode entered by calling resume.
Refer to the L76 documentation for details [here](https://www.quectel.com/UploadImage/Downlad/Quectel_L76_Series_Hardware_Design_V3.1.pdf).


**`---
#### `#!py3 set_rate()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 set_rate(rate=1000)`**"

Set the frequency for location fix (100-10000 milliseconds is the available range).

## NMEA

Additional methods from the base class `nmea.NMEA_Receiver`.


**`---
#### `#!py3 fix()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 fix()`**"

Return the current fix or *```None*``` if not available.

A fix is a tuple with the following elements:


* latitude in decimal format (-89.9999 - 89.9999)


* longitude in decimal format (-179.9999 - 179.9999)


* altitude in meters


* speed in Km/h


* course over ground as degrees from true north


* number of satellites for this fix


* horizontal dilution of precision (0.5 - 99.9)


* vertical dilution of precision (0.5 - 99.9)


* positional dilution of precision (0.5 - 99.9)


* UTC time as a tuple (yyyy,MM,dd,hh,mm,ss,microseconds)


**`---
#### `#!py3 has_fix()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 has_fix()`**"

Return ```True``` if a fix is available.


**`


---
#### `#!py3 utc()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 utc()`**"

Return the current UTC time or *```None*``` if not available.
A UTC time is a tuple of (yyyy,MM,dd,hh,mm,ss,microseconds).

UTC time can be wrong if no fix has ever been obtained.


**`---
#### `#!py3 has_utc()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 has_utc()`**"

Return *```True*``` if a UTC time is available.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTExOTI5NDI3MF19
-->