# DS2482 Module - One Wire

This module implements the DS2482 functionalities for all models (100,101 and 800). It also implements a generic OneWire sensor class to be used by libraries dependent on DS2482 (datasheet for [DS2482-100](https://datasheets.maximintegrated.com/en/ds/DS2482-100.pdf), [DS2482-101](https://datasheets.maximintegrated.com/en/ds/DS2482-101.pdf), and [DS2482-800](https://datasheets.maximintegrated.com/en/ds/DS2482-800.pdf)).

Here an example of use:

```py
# The following example interfaces with a DS2482 to read
# DS1820 sensors values (temperature) present on the bus

from maxim.ds2482 import ds2482
from maxim.ds1820 import ds1820 #this module must be installed separately!
import streams

streams.serial()

print("Init onewire")
ow=ds2482.DS2482(I2C0)
ow.start()
# scan all the channels (for DS2482 model 800)
for ch in range(8):
    try:
        print("Scanning channel",ch)
        # set active channel
        ow.set_channel(ch)
        # search all onewire peripherals on the channel
        res = ow.search_raw()
        for i,k in enumerate(res):
            # print the id of the sensor
            print(i,"-->", ds2482.b2s(k))
            # create a sensor instance, derived from OneWireSensor class
            ss = ds1820.DS1820(k,ow)
            # read the sensor
            tt = ss.read()
            print(i,"==>",tt)
        except Exception as e:
            print(e)
```


**`class DS2482(drvname,clock=100000,addr=0x18)`**

Creates a DS2482 instance using the MCU I2C circuitry *drvname* (one of I2C0, I2C1, … check pinmap for details). The created instance is configured and ready to communicate. *clock* is configured by default in slow mode.

DS2482 inherits from i2c.I2C, therefore the method start() must be called to setup the I2C channel before using the OneWire bus.


**`search_raw()`**

Scans the OneWire bus and collect the 64-bit serial numbers of connected peripherals.

Returns a set containing the serial numbers as byte sequences (bytes type)


**`search(sc)`**

Returns a list of items created by calling sc(serial) for each discovered serial number on the OneWire bus.

Common usage is the following code that creates a list of `OneWireSensor()` instances:

```py
from dallas.onewire import sensors

res = ow.search(sensors.OneWireSensor)
# ow is a started instance of DS2482 class
```


**`_init(drvname, addr, channel)`**

Initializes the DS2482 I2C bridge connected to *drvname* I2C peripheral (I2C0, I2C1, etc..) with address *addr* on channel *channel.* Raises exceptions if DS2482 can’t be initialized.


**`search_raw()`**

Scans the OneWire bus and collect the 64-bit serial numbers of connected peripherals.

Returns a set containing the serial numbers as byte sequences (bytes type).


**`b2s(serial)`**

Converts ```serial``` given as a byte sequence into the string format. In the string format each byte of serial is converted to hexadecimal and separated by “:”


### s2b(serial)
Converts ```serial``` given in the string format to a byte sequence.

## OneWireSensor class


### class OneWireSensor(serial, owbus)
Creates a OneWireSensor instance with serial set to ```serial```. ```serial``` can be a string in the appropriate format
or a byte sequence (both bytes or bytearray).

The first byte of the serial identifies the sensor family. If the family is not supported
UnsupportedError is raised.

The following members are available:


* ```serial```: serial number as a byte sequence


* ```typeid```: the family number of the peripheral

If a OneWireSensor instance is converted to string, the result is the serial number in the string format.


### read()
Returns a single reading from the sensor. The result value depends on the sensor family.

PeripheralError is raised if there is a problem in the OneWire bus.

InvalidHardwareStatusError is raised if a peripheral on the OneWire bus does not respond (e.g. it is disconnected)
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTQ1MzM2NzgzOF19
-->