# VCNL4200 Module

This module contains the Zerynth driver for Vishay VCNL4200.
The unit integrates a high sensitivity long distance proximity sensor (PS),
ambient light sensor (ALS), and 940 nm IRED into one small package.

Communication with this unit is done using I2C.

## VCNL4200 class


**`class VCNL4200(drvsel, ps=True, als=True, address=DEFAULT_I2C_ADDR, clk=400000)`**

Initialize an object representing the VCNL4200 board. The I2C communication is started, and enabled sensors are configured
with a stanrdard configuration.

**Note:** Default settings enable proximity sensor high definition and faster duty time, this results in more accuracy at the cost of more
power usage. Refer to sensor datasheet and use configure_proximity_sensor(), configure_ambient_light_sensor() methods for more advanced settings.


**Arguments:**

    
* **drvsel** – The I2C port to be used. (e.g. I2C0)
* **ps** – Boolean for enabling the proximity sensor on board (Default: True)
* **als** – Boolean for enabling the ambient light sensor on board (Default: True)
* **address** – Byte for selecting the I2C address to be used. (Default: sensor default)
* **clk** – I2C clock speed to be used (100000 or 400000). (Default: 400000)



**`get_distance()`**

Returns an integer representing the proximity read from the sensor.


**`get_ambient_light()`**

Returns an integer in range 0-65535 representing the ambient light level read from the sensor.


**`configure_proximity_sensor(conf1, conf2, conf3)`**

Write settings for proximity sensor in registers PS_CONF1, PS_CONF2, and PS_CONF3. Refer to datasheet for all the available settings.


**Arguments:**

    
* **onf1** – Byte to be written in PS_CONF1 register.
* **conf2** – Byte to be written in PS_CONF2 register.
* **conf3** – Byte to be written in PS_CONF3 register.



**`configure_ambient_light_sensor(conf)`**

Write settings for ambient light sensor in register ALS_CONF.
Refer to datasheet for all the available settings.


**Arguments:** **conf** – Byte to be written in ALS_CONF register.
