# RN2483 Module

This Zerynth module currently supports over-the-air activation only to join a LoRaWAN network.
Class A LoRaWAN devices, after correctly joining a network, are able to transmit a message up to 222 bytes
and receive a response up to 230 bytes during the subsequent downlink session.
Sent messages can be confirmed (acknowledged) or unconfirmed; check your network policy to choose the proper
transmit method ([datasheet](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/50002346A.pdf),
[command reference](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/40001784B.pdf),
[LoRaWAN specification](https://lora-alliance.org/sites/default/files/2018-04/lorawantm_specification_-v1.1.pdf)).

**NOTE:**
**rn2483Exception** is defined.

Usage example:

```py
import streams
from microchip.rn2483 import rn2483

streams.serial()

rst = D16
# insert otaa credentials!!
appeui = ""
appkey = ""
print("joining...")

if not rn2483.init(SERIAL1, appeui, appkey, rst):
    print("denied :(")
    raise Exception

print("sending first message, res:")
print(rn2483.tx_uncnf('TTN'))

while True:
    print("ping, res:")
    print(rn2483.tx_uncnf("."))
    sleep(5000)
```

###### get_hweui

```#!py3 get_hweui(ser = None, rst = None)```



Gets device EUI. If you need to get the EUI before joining a network, it is possible to specify:


* *ser* serial port used for device-to-module communication (ex. SERIAL1)
* *rst* module reset pin

and call get_hweui() before init().

###### get_ch_status

```#!py3 get_ch_status(channel)```

Gets *channel* channel status: ‘on’ if enabled, ‘off’ otherwise.

###### get_duty_cycle

```#!py3 get_duty_cycle(channel, raw = False)```

Gets *channel* channel duty cycle: returned by default as a percentage.
As a raw value passing *raw* as True.

###### get_ar

```#!py3 get_ar()```

Gets current automatic reply state (‘on’ or ‘off’).

###### set_ar

```#!py3 set_ar(state)```

Sets automatic reply to ‘on’ or ‘off’ state.
Currently setting ar to ‘on’ does not have consequences on downlink session.

###### set_retransmissions

```#!py3 set_retransmissions(n)```

Sets number of retransmissions to be used for an uplink confirmed packet,
if no downlink acknoledgement is received from the server.

###### config

```#!py3 config(appeui=None, appkey=None, deveui=None, pwridx='1', adr='off', rx2='3 869525000', retx=5, ar='off')```

Configures the lora module with otaa join credentials and other parameters.


* *appeui*, appkey are needed for otaa
* *deveui* is needed fot otaa too but if it is None, module’s hardware eui will be used for activation
* *pwridx* sets the output power
* *adr* controls the adaptive data rate
* *rx2* data rate and frequency used for the second Receive window
* *retx* number of retransmissions to be used for an uplink confirmed packet
* *ar* sets the state of the automatic reply

###### set_config

```#!py3 set_config()```

Sets the configuration parameters
Configures the lora module with otaa join credentials and other parameters.


* *appeui*, *appkey* are needed for otaa
* *deveui* is needed fot otaa too but if it is None, module’s hardware eui will be used for activation
* *pwridx* sets the output power
* *adr* controls the adaptive data rate
* *rx2* data rate and frequency used for the second Receive window
* *retx* number of retransmissions to be used for an uplink confirmed packet
* *ar* sets the state of the automatic reply

###### join

```#!py3 join()```

Attempts to join the network using over-the-air activation.

###### init

```#!py3 init(ser, appeui, appkey, rst, join_lora=True)```

Performs basic module configuration and try over-the-air activation.


* *ser* is the serial port used for device-to-module communication (ex. SERIAL1)
* *appeui*, *appkey* are needed for otaa
* *rst* is the module reset pin
* if *join_lora* is False the configuration and over-the-air activation attempt are skipped and the module can be configured through the config() function and then the LoRa network can be joined calling the join() function.

###### tx_uncnf

```#!py3 tx_uncnf(data)```

Transmits an unconfirmed message.
*data* is a string or a bytearray.

Returns True if no data is available during downlink session,
a tuple (True, resp_data), where *resp_data* is a bytearray, otherwise.

###### tx_cnf

```#!py3 tx_cnf(data)```

Transmits a confirmed message.
*data* is a string or a bytearray.

Returns True if no data is available during downlink session,
a tuple (True, resp_data), where *resp_data* is a bytearray, otherwise.

###### get_snr

```#!py3 get_snr()```

Returns an integer between -128 and 127 representing the signal to noise ratio (SNR) for the last received packet.

###### get_pwr

```#!py3 get_pwr()```

Returns an integer between -3 and 15 representing the current power level settings used in operation.
