# SL01 Module

This is a Module for the [SL01](https:#wiki.xinabox.cc/SL01_-_UVA,_UVB,_Light) UVA, UVB, UV Index and luminosity sensor.
The xChip is based on the VEML6075 UVA and UVB Light Sensor and the TSL4531 digital ambient light sensor.
The board uses I2C for communication.

Data Sheets:


* [VEML6075](http:#www.vishay.com/docs/84304/veml6075.pdf)


* [TSL4531](https:#media.digikey.com/pdf/Data%20Sheets/Austriamicrosystems%20PDFs/TSL4531.pdf)

## VEML6075 class


---
#### `#!py3 VEML6075()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 VEML6075(self, drvname, addr=0x10, clk=100000)`"

Create an instance of the VEML6075 class.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```drvname``` – I2C Bus used ‘( I2C0, … )’


    * ```addr``` – Slave address, default 0x10


    * ```clk``` – Clock speed, default 100kHz



---
#### `#!py3 init()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 init()`"

Configure registers of VEML6075 for UV measurements.
Call after instantiating VEML6075 class.
Exception raised if unsuccessful.


---
#### `#!py3 getUVA()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 getUVA()`"

Reads the UVA value and returns it.

Return the real UVA value as a float data type.


---
#### `#!py3 getUVB()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 getUVB()`"

Reads the UVB value and returns it.

Return the real UVB value as a float data type.


---
#### `#!py3 getUVIndex()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 getUVIndex()`"

Reads the UV Index value and returns it.

Return the real UV index as a float.

## TSL4531 class


---
#### `#!py3 TSL4531()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 TSL4531(self, drvname, addr=0x29, clk=100000)`"

Create an instance of the TSL4531 class.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```drvname``` – I2C Bus used ‘( I2C0, … )’


    * ```addr``` – Slave address, default 0x29


    * ```clk``` – Clock speed, default 100kHz



---
#### `#!py3 init()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 init()`"

Configure registers of TSL4531 for light measurement.
Call after instantiating TSL4531 class.
Exception raised if unsuccessful.


---
#### `#!py3 getLUX()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 getLUX()`"

Reads the luminosity value and returns it in LUX.

Return the LUX value as a float.
