# SSD1351 Module

This Module exposes all functionalities of Solomon SSD1351 Color OLED Display driver ([datasheet](https://developer.mbed.org/media/uploads/GregC/ssd1351-revision_1.3.pdf)).

```NOTE```: Only 65k color depth is supported; 262k color depth will be available soon.

<!-- class: SSD1351(drv, cs, rst, dc, pwr, clock=8000000):

Creates an intance of a new SSD1351.

:param spidrv: SPI Bus used '( SPI0, ... )'
:param cs: Chip Select
:param rst: Reset pin
:param dc: Data/Command control pin
:param pwr: Power On pin
:param clk: Clock speed, default 8MHz

Example: ::

    from solomon.ssd1351 import ssd1351

    ...

    oled = ssd1351.SSD1351(SPI0,D57,D58,D59,D71)
    oled.init()
    oled.on()
    oled.fill_screen(color=0xFFFFFF) -->

---
#### `#!py3 init()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 init(screen_width=128, screen_height=128)`"

Initialize the SSD1351 setting all internal registers and the display dimensions in pixels.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```screen_width``` – width in pixels of the display (max 128); default 128


    * ```screen_height``` – height in pixels of the display (max 128); default 128



---
#### `#!py3 on()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 on()`"

Turns on the display.


---
#### `#!py3 off()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 off()`"

Turns off the display.


---
#### `#!py3 set_contrast()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 set_contrast(contrast=0x7F)`"

Sets the contrast of the display.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```contrast``` – value of the contrast to be set (from 0 to 255), default 0x7F



---
#### `#!py3 clear()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 clear()`"

Clears the display.


---
#### `#!py3 fill_screen()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 fill_screen(color, encode=True)`"

Fills the entire display with color code provided as argument.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```color``` – hex color code for the screen


    * **encode(bool)** – flag for enabling the color encoding; default True


```NOTE```: To be compatible with the 65k color format, if a stadard hex color code (24 bit) is provided
it is necessary to encode it into a 16 bit format.

If a 16 bit color code is provided, the encode flag must be set to False.


---
#### `#!py3 fill_rect()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 fill_rect(x, y, w, h, color, encode=True)`"

Draws a rectangular area in the screen colored with the color code provided as argument.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```x``` – x-coordinate for left high corner of the rectangular area


    * ```y``` – y-coordinate for left high corner of the rectangular area


    * ```w``` – width of the rectangular area


    * ```h``` – height of the rectangular area


    * ```color``` – hex color code for the rectangular area


    * **encode(bool)** – flag for enabling the color encoding; default True


```NOTE```: To be compatible with the 65k color format, if a stadard hex color code (24 bit) is provided
it is necessary to encode it into a 16 bit format.

If a 16 bit color code is provided, the encode flag must be set to False.


---
#### `#!py3 draw_img()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 draw_img(image, x, y, w, h)`"

Draws a rectangular area in the screen colored with the color code provided as argument.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```image``` – image to draw in the oled display converted to hex array format and passed as bytearray


    * ```x``` – x-coordinate for left high corner of the image


    * ```y``` – y-coordinate for left high corner of the image


    * ```w``` – width of the image


    * ```h``` – height of the image


```NOTE```: To obtain a converted image in hex array format, you can go and use this [online tool](http://www.digole.com/tools/PicturetoC_Hex_converter.php).

After uploading your image, you can resize it setting the width and height fields; you can also choose the code format (HEX:0x recommended) and the color format
(65K color recommended).

Clicking on the “Get C string” button, the tool converts your image with your settings to a hex string that you can copy and paste inside a bytearray in your project and privide to this function.


---
#### `#!py3 draw_pixel()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 draw_pixel(x, y, color, encode=True)`"

Draws a single pixel in the screen colored with the color code provided as argument.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```x``` – pixel x-coordinate


    * ```y``` – pixel y-coordinate


    * ```color``` – hex color code for the pixel


    * **encode(bool)** – flag for enabling the color encoding; default True


```NOTE```: To be compatible with the 65k color format, if a stadard hex color code (24 bit) is provided
it is necessary to encode it into a 16 bit format.

If a 16 bit color code is provided, the encode flag must be set to False.


---
#### `#!py3 draw_text()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 draw_text(text, x=None, y=None, w=None, h=None, color=None, align=None, background=None, encode=True)`"

Prints a string inside a text box in the screen.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```text``` – string to be written in the display


    * ```x``` – x-coordinate for left high corner of the text box; default None


    * ```y``` – y-coordinate for left high corner of the text box; default None


    * ```w``` – width of the text box; default None


    * ```h``` – height of the text box; default None


    * ```color``` – hex color code for the font; default None


    * ```align``` – alignment of the text inside the text box (1 for left alignment, 2 for right alignment, 3 for center alignment); default None


    * ```background``` – hex color code for the background; default None


    * **encode(bool)** – flag for enabling the color encoding of the font and background color; default True


```NOTE```: To be compatible with the 65k color format, so if a stadard hex color code (24 bit) is provided
it is necessary to encode it into a 16 bit format.

If a 16 bit color code is provided, the encode flag must be set to False.

```NOTE```: If only text argument is provided, an automatic text box is created with the following values:


* x = 0


* y = 0


* w = min text width according to the font


* h = max char height according to the font


* color = 0xFFFF


* align = 3 (centered horizontally)


* background = 0x4471
