# SL06 Module

This is a module for the [SL06](https://wiki.xinabox.cc/SL06_-_Gesture/) Digital Proximity, Ambient Light, RGB and Gesture Sensor.
The board is based off the APDS-9960 manufactured by Avago Technologies.
The board uses I2C for communication.

Data Sheets:


* [APDS-9960](https://docs.broadcom.com/docs/AV02-4191EN)

## SL06 class


---
#### `#!py3 SL06()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 SL06(drvname, addr=0x39, clk=100000)`"

Creates an intance of the SL06 class.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```drvname``` – I2C Bus used ‘( I2C0, … )’


    * ```addr``` – Slave address, default 0x39


    * ```clk``` – Clock speed, default 100kHz



---
#### `#!py3 init()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 init()`"

Configures APDS-9960 by initializing registers to its default values.
Call immediately after instantiating the SL06 class.
Raises an exeption if any error occurs during initialization.

Returns True if initialization is successful.


---
#### `#!py3 getMode()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 getMode()`"

Returns the mode of the sensor


---
#### `#!py3 setMode()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 setMode(mode, enable)`"

Sets the desired mode on APDS9960.
Exception raised if unsuccessful.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```mode``` – desired mode. AMBIENT_LIGHT, PROXIMITY, GESTURE.


    * ```enable``` – accepts 1 or 0


Returns True if successful


---
#### `#!py3 enableLightSensor()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 enableLightSensor(interrupts)`"

Begins the light sensor.
Exception raised if unsuccessful.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```interrupts``` – Input True to enable hardware interrupt on light level. Defaults to False



---
#### `#!py3 disableLightSensor()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 disableLightSensor()`"

Disables the light sensor.


---
#### `#!py3 enableProximitySensor()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 enableProximitySensor(interrupts)`"

Begins the proximity sensor.
Exception raised if unsuccessful.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```interrupts``` – Input True to enable hardware interrupt on proximity detection. Defaults to False



---
#### `#!py3 disableProximitySensor()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 disableProximitySensor()`"

Disables the proximity sensor.


---
#### `#!py3 enableGestureSensor()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 enableGestureSensor(interrupts)`"

Begins the gesture sensor.
Exception raised if unsuccessful.


* ```Arguments```

    
    * ```interrupts``` – Input True to enable hardware interrupt on gesture detection. Defaults to False



---
#### `#!py3 disableGestureSensor()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 disableGestureSensor()`"

Disables the gesture sensor.
Exception raised if unsuccessful


---
#### `#!py3 isGestureAvailable()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 isGestureAvailable()`"

Checks whether a gesture was detected.


---
#### `#!py3 getGesture()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 getGesture()`"

Processes a gesture event and returns best guessed gesture.

Returns the gesture direction as a string literal.


---
#### `#!py3 enablePower()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 enablePower()`"

Turns APDS9960 on


---
#### `#!py3 disablePower()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 disablePower()`"

Turns APDS9960 off


---
#### `#!py3 getAmbientLight()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 getAmbientLight()`"

Reads the ambient light measurement.
Exception raised if unsuccessful

Returns the ambient light measurement.


---
#### `#!py3 getRedLight()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 getRedLight()`"

Reads the red light level.
Exception raised if unsuccessful.

Returns the red light level.


---
#### `#!py3 getBlueLight()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 getBlueLight()`"

Reads the blue light level.
Exception raised if unsuccessful.

Returns the blue light level.


---
#### `#!py3 getGreenLight()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 getGreenLight()`"

Reads the green light level.
Exception raised if unsuccessful.

Returns the green light level.


---
#### `#!py3 getProximity()`

!!!abstract "`#!py3 getProximity()`"

Reads the proximity level.
Exception raised if unsuccessful.

Returns the proximity level.
