# BNO055 Module

This module contains the driver for BOSCH BNO055 9-axis Absolute Orientation Sensor. The BNO055 is a System in Package (SiP), integrating a triaxial 14-bit accelerometer, a triaxial 16-bit gyroscope with a range of ±2000 degrees per second, a triaxial geomagnetic sensor ([datasheet](https://ae-bst.resource.bosch.com/media/_tech/media/datasheets/BST_BNO055_DS000_14.pdf)).


**`class BNO055(i2cdrv, addr=0x28, clk=100000)`**

Creates an intance of a new BNO055.


**Arguments:**

    
 - **i2cdrv** – I2C Bus used ‘( I2C0, … )’
 - **addr** – Slave address, default 0x28
 - **clk**– Clock speed, default 100kHz


Example:

```py
from bosch.bno055 import bno055

...

bno = bno055.BNO055(I2C0)
bno.start()
bno.init()
abs_orientation = bno.get_euler()
```

**`init(mode=None)`**

Initialize the BNO055 setting the mode value.


**Arguments:** - **mode** – Mode value selectable from Mode table (refer to page 20 of the BNO055 datasheet), default None


**`set_mode(mode)`**

Sets the Mode value of the BNO055.


**Arguments:** **mode** – Mode value (refer to page 20 of the BNO055 datasheet)


!!! note
	The BNO055 provides a variety of output signals, which can be chosen by selecting the appropriate operation mode. The table below lists the different modes and the available sensor signals.

| Mode

 | Available Library Functions

 |
| Value

     | Name

       | get_acc()

  | get_magn()

  | get_gyro()

 | get_euler()

 |
| ----- | --------------------------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ----------- |  |  |
| acc

   | ACCONLY

                     | Yes

       | No

         | No

         | No

          |
| magn

  | MAGONLY

                     | No

        | Yes

        | No

         | No

          |
| gyro

  | GYROONLY

                    | No

        | No

         | Yes

        | No

          |
| accmag

 | ACCMAG

                      | Yes

       | Yes

        | No

         | No

          |
| accgyro

 | ACCGYRO

                     | Yes

       | No

         | Yes

        | No

          |
| maggyro

 | MAGGYRO

                     | No

        | Yes

        | Yes

        | No

          |
| amg

     | AMG

                         | No

        | Yes

        | Yes

        | No

          |
| imu

     | IMU

                         | Yes

       | No

         | Yes

        | Yes

         |
| comp

    | COMPASS

                     | Yes

       | Yes

        | No

         | Yes

         |
| m4g

     | M4G

                         | Yes

       | Yes

        | Yes

        | Yes

         |
| ndof_off

 | NDOF_FMC_OFF

                | No

        | Yes

        | Yes

        | Yes

         |
| ndof

     | NDOF

                        | Yes

       | Yes

        | Yes

        | Yes

         |

**`get_calibration_status()`**

Retrieves the current calibration status of the BNO055 main components:

* System
* Accelerometer
* Gyroscope
* Magnetometer

**NOTE:**
Read: 3 indicates fully calibrated; 0 indicates not calibrated.

Returns [sys_cal_sts, acc_cal_sts, gyro_cal_sts, magn_cal_sts].


**`get_calibration(raw=False)`**


Retrieves the calibration values of the BMO055 main components (list of 11 elements):


* Accelerometer Offset for X, Y, Z axes (values in m/s²) - list elements 0,1,2;
* Magnetometer Offset for X, Y, Z axes (values in uT) - list elements 3,4,5;
* Gyroscope Offset for X, Y, Z axes (values in Dps) - list elements 6,7,8;
* Accelerometer Radius - list element 9;
* Magnetometer Radius - list element 10.

**NOTE:**
If raw parameter is set to True, returns a list of 22 raw bytes.

Returns [list of calibration values]


**`set_calibration(data, raw=False)`**

Sets the calibration values of the BNO055 main components.


**Arguments:** **data** – List of values (11 elements) representing the sensors offsets and radius.


Data list must follow this order:


* Accelerometer Offset for X, Y, Z axes (values in m/s²) - list elements 0,1,2;
* Magnetometer Offset for X, Y, Z axes (values in uT) - list elements 3,4,5;
* Gyroscope Offset for X, Y, Z axes (values in Dps) - list elements 6,7,8;
* Accelerometer Radius - list element 9;
* Magnetometer Radius - list element 10.

**NOTE:** 
If raw parameter is set to True, following rules are required:


* data list must have 22 elements;
* each element must be a byte (value 0 to 255);
* data list must be a sequence of [lsb1, msb1, lsb2, msb2, …, …];
* data list order is the same described above (elem0 and elem1 of data list are respectively lsb and msb of accelerometer offset in x axis).


**`get_acc()`**

Retrieves the current absolute acceleration as a list of X, Y, Z values in m/s².

Returns [acc_x, acc_y, acc_z].


**`get_gyro()`**

Retrieves the current gyroscope data reading as a list of X, Y, Z values in degrees per second.

Returns [gyro_x, gyro_y, gyro_z].


**`get_magn()`**

Retrieves the current magnetometer reading as a list of X, Y, Z values in micro-Teslas.

Returns [value_magn_x, value_magn_y, value_magn_z].


**`get_euler()`**

Retrieves the current orientation as a list of heading, roll,
and pitch euler angles in degrees.

Returns [abs_or_h, abs_or_r, abs_or_p].


**`get_lin_acc()`**

Retrieves the current linear acceleration (acceleration from movement, not from gravity) as a list of X, Y, Z values in m/s².

Returns [lin_acc_x, lin_acc_y, lin_acc_z].

**`get_grav()`**

Retrieves the current gravity acceleration as a list of X, Y, Z values in m/s².

Returns [grav_x, grav_y, grav_z].


**`get_quaternion()`**

Retrieves the current orientation as a list of X, Y, Z, W quaternion values.

Returns [w, x, y, z].


**`get_temp()`**

Retrieves the current temperature in Celtius.

Returns temp.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTY4ODkwMDQzMCwtNjE5ODk4MDc5LC05MT
g2ODc2NDIsMjg0OTA5MTIyXX0=
-->