# BMP180 Module

This module contains the driver for BOSCH BMP180 Digital Barometric Pressure Sensor. The ultra-low power, low voltage electronics of the BMP180 is optimized for use in mobile devices and the I2C interface allows for easy system integration with a microcontroller. The BMP180 is based on piezo-resistive technology for EMC robustness, high accuracy and linearity as well as long term stability ([datasheet](https://ae-bst.resource.bosch.com/media/_tech/media/datasheets/BST-BMP180-DS000-121.pdf)).

##### class BMP180

```#!py3 class BMP180(i2cdrv,addr=0x77,clk=100000)```

Creates an instance of a new BMP180.


**Arguments:**
    

 - **i2cdrv** – I2C Bus used ‘( I2C0, … )’
 - **addr** – Slave address, default 0x77
 - **clk** – Clock speed, default 100kHz

Example:

```py
from bosch.bmp180 import bmp180

...

bmp = bmp180.BMP180(I2C0)
bmp.start()
bmp.init()
temp, pres = bmp.get_temp_pres()
```

###### BMP180.init

```#!py3 init(oss=0)```

Initialize the BMP180 calibrating the sensor and setting the oss value.


**Arguments:**

 - **oss** – OverSampling Setting value (from 0 to 4), default 0

###### BMP180.set_over_sampling_setting

```#!py3 set_over_sampling_setting(oss)```

Sets the OverSampling Setting value of the BMP180.


**Arguments:**

 - **oss** – OverSampling Setting value (from 0 to 4 allowed)

!!! note
	The OverSampling Setting parameter selects different operating modes according to give the possibility for findind the optimum compromise between power consumption, speed, and resolution; in the table below allowed values are reported with related operating modes.
	
| OSS param | Operating Mode        | N of samples | Conversion time | Avg Current 1 sample/s |
|-----------|-----------------------|--------------|-----------------|------------------------|
| 0         | Ultra Low Power       | 1            | 4.5 ms          | 3 uA                   |
| 1         | Standard              | 2            | 7.5 ms          | 5 uA                   |
| 2         | High Resolution       | 4            | 13.5 ms         | 7 uA                   |
| 3         | Ultra High Resolution | 8            | 25.5 ms         | 12 uA                  |

###### BMP180.get_raw_temp

```#!py3 get_raw_temp()```

Retrieves the current temperature data from the sensor as raw value.

Returns raw_t.

###### BMP180.get_raw_pres

```#!py3 get_raw_pres()```

Retrieves the current pressure data from the sensor as raw value; according to the OverSampling Setting value this measure can be faster but less accurate or more precise but slower. (see `set_over_sampling_setting()`)

Returns raw_p.

###### BMP180.get_temp

```#!py3 get_temp()```

Retrieves the current temperature data from the sensor as calibrate value in °C.

Returns temp.

###### BMP180.get_pres

```#!py3 get_pres()```

Retrieves the current pressure data from the sensor as calibrate value in Pa; according to the OverSampling Setting value this measure can be faster but less accurate or more precise but slower. (see `set_over_sampling_setting()`)

Returns pres.

###### BMP180.get_temp_pres

```#!py3 get_temp_pres()```

Retrieves the current temperature (in °C) and pressure (in Pa) data from the sensor as calibrate values in one call.

Returns temp.

###### BMP180.get_altitude

```#!py3 get_altitude()```

Calculates, from measured pressure, the current altitude data as value in meters.

Returns altitude.

###### BMP180.get_sea_level_pres

```#!py3 get_sea_level_pres()```

Calculates, from measured pressure, the pressure (in Pa) at sea level when given a known altitude in meters.

Returns p0 (pressure at sea level).
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTY5Mjc5NDk1MCwzNTM2MDgwM119
-->
