# MAX30101 Module

This module contains the driver for MAXIM MAX30101 pulse oximetry and heart-rate monitor module.
The MAX30101 is capable of direct I2C communication and can be set on 3 different operating mode ([datasheet](https://datasheets.maximintegrated.com/en/ds/MAX30101.pdf)).

## MAX30101 Class


**`class MAX30101(i2cdrv,addr=0x57,clk=400000)`**

Creates an intance of the MAX30101 class.

**Arguments:**

    
-	**i2cdrv** – I2C Bus used ‘( I2C0, … )’
-	**addr** – Slave address, default 0x75
-	**clk** – Clock speed, default 400kHz.


Example:

```py
from maxim.max30101 import max30101

...

m301 = max30101.MAX30101(I2C0)
m301.start()
m301.init()

data = m301.read_raw_samples(6)
```


**`init(mode = 'spo2',adc_range = 3,sample_rate = 50,pulse_width = 411,led_current = [255,255,0,0],proximity_thrs = 0,slot_multi = [0,0,0,0])`**

Initialize the MAX30101. Default paramter values enable `"spo2"` - without proximity - mode with: maximum ADC range, sampling rate of 50 Hz, LED pulse width of 411us and maximum pulse amplitude for both red and IR LEDs.

**Arguments:**

-	**mode** – set the operating state of the MAX30101, default mode is `spo2`.
-	**adc_range** – sets the SpO2 sensor ADC’s full-scale range, maximum range by default.
-	**sample_rate** – sets the sampling rate, default is 50 Hz.
-	**pulse_width** – LEDs pulse width in microsecond, default value is 411.
-	**led_current** – sets red, IR, green and IR for proximity mode LEDs pulse amplitude, by default only red and IR red are set to maximum value.
-	**proximity_thrs** – sets the threshold for the proximity mode.
-	**slot_multi** – configuration parameter for `"multi"` operating mode.


!!! note
	 For details on available values for all the parameters see **`set_mode()`**.

### FIFO configuration

The MAX30101 stores the digital output data in a 32-deep circular FIFO within the IC. The sample size depends on the number of LED configured as active. As each led signal is stored as a 3-byte data, the FIFO width can be 3, 6, 9 or 12 bytes in size.


**`set_sample_averaging(n)`**

To reduce the amount of data throughput, `n` adjacent samples (in each individual channel) can be averaged and decimated on the chip by using this method.
Accepted values for `n` are: 1,2,4,8,16 and 32.

**`set_fifo_rollover(ro = True)`**

This method controls the behavior of the FIFO when the FIFO becomes completely filled with data. If `ro` is `True`, the FIFO Address rolls over to zero and the FIFO continues to fill with new data. If `ro` is `False`, then the FIFO is not updated until FIFO is read or the FIFO WRITE/READ pointer positions are changed.

**`set_fifo_afv(n)`**

This method sets the trigger for the `"full"` interrupt. The interrupt triggers when there are `n` empty spaces left in FIFO.


**`read_raw_samples(nbyte)`**

Return a nbyte-long bytearray containing raw data read from the FIFO.


**`clear_fifo()`**

This method set to zero the FIFO read and write pointers and the overflow counter.

### Interrupt configuration


**`enable_interrupt(source)`**

Set bit on enable interrupt registers corresponding to the selected source. ‘sources’ must be a list including one or more available sources. Available values for ‘sources’ are:


* `"full"` : in ```spo2``` or ```hr``` mode, this interrupt triggers when FIFO has a certain number of free spaces remaining.


* `"data"` : in ```spo2``` or ```hr``` mode, this interrupt triggers when there is a new sample in the data FIFO.


* `"alc"` : this interrupt triggers when the ambient light cancellation function of the SpO2/HR photodiode has reached its maximum limit, and therefore, ambient light is affecting the output of the ADC.


* `"prox"` : the proximity interrupt is triggered when the proximity threshold is reached, and SpO2/HR mode has begun.


* `"temp"` : when an internal die temperature conversion is finished, this interrupt is triggered so the processor can read the temperature data registers.


**`read_triggered_interrupt()`**

This method needs to read which interrupt is triggered when more then one is enabled and
returns a list containing triggered interrupts.

!!! note
	interrupt defines are shown in method above; this function can return “pwr” interrupt (triggered on every power-up) that is enabled by default and cannot be disabled.


**`disable_interrupts()`**

Disable all interrupts.

### Mode configuration

**`shutdown()`**

Put the part into a power-save mode. While in power-save mode, all registers retain their values, and write/read operations function as normal. All interrupts are cleared to zero in this mode.

**`wake_up()`**

Wake up the MAX30101 component.


**`reset()`**

All configuration, threshold, and data registers are reset to their power-on-state through a power-on reset.


**`set_mode(mode,adc_range,sample_rate,pulse_width,led_current,proximity_thrs,slot_multi)`**

Set the operating mode of the MAX30101. Default paramter values are the same of **`init()`**.

**Parameters:**

 - *mode* : set the operating state of the MAX30101. Available values are:

    * `"hr"` : Heart Rate mode - only red LED is used for conversion.
    * `"spo2"` : SpO2 mode - red and IR LEDs are used for conversion.
    * `"multi"` : Multi-LED mode - green, red and/or IR LEDs can be used for conversion.
* *adc_range* : sets the SpO2 sensor ADC’s full-scale range as shown in the table below.

| adc_range | LSB size (pA) | Full Scale (nA) |
|-----------|---------------|-----------------|
| 0         | 7.81          | 2048            |
| 1         | 15.63         | 4096            |
| 2         | 31.25         | 8192            |
| 3         | 62.5          | 16384           |

* *sample_rate* : sets the SpO2 effective sample rate. One sample consists of one IR pulse/conversion and one RED pulse/conversion. The sample rate and pulse width are related in that the sample rate sets an upper bound on the pulse width time. If the user selects a sample rate that is too high for the selected *pulse_width* setting, the highest possible sample rate is programmed instead. Available sampling rate values are: 50, 100, 200, 400, 800, 1000, 1600, 3200.


* *pulse_width* : set the LED pulse width and indirectly sets the ADC resolution. All LEDs (IR, red and green) have the same pulse width.

| pulse_width | Pulse width (us) | ADC Resolution (bits) |
|-------------|------------------|-----------------------|
| 69          | 68.95            | 15                    |
| 118         | 117.78           | 16                    |
| 215         | 215.44           | 17                    |
| 411         | 410.75           | 18                    |

* *led_current* : sets the pulse amplitude for the LEDs. *led_current* = [red, ir, green, pilot]. The purpose of *pilot* is to set the LED power during the proximity mode, as well as in `"multi"` mode.

| red, ir, green or pilot | Led Current (mA) |
|-------------------------|------------------|
| 0                       | 0.0              |
| 1                       | 0.2              |
| 2                       | 0.4              |
| ...                     | ...              |
| 15                      | 3.1              |
| ...                     | ...              |
| 31                      | 6.4              |
| ...                     | ...              |
| 63                      | 12.5             |
| ...                     | ...              |
| 127                     | 25.4             |
| ...                     | ...              |
| 255                     | 50.0             |

* *proximity_thrs*:  sets the IR ADC count that will trigger the beginning of `"hr"` or `"spo2"` mode and, if enabled, the prox interrupt. The threshold is defined as the 8 MSBs of the ADC count. For example, if proximity_thrs = 1, then an ADC value of 1023 (decimal) or higher triggers the prox interrupt. If proximity_thrs = 255, then only a saturated ADC triggers the interrupt.


* *slot_multi*:  In `"multi"` mode, each sample is split into up to four time slots, slot1 through slot4. *slot_multi* = [slot1, slot2, slot3, slot4]. These method control which LED is active with which amplitude in each time slot, making for a very flexible configuration. The slots should be enabled in order (i.e., slot1 should not be disabled if slot2 or slot3 are enabled).

| slotX | Active Led | Led Pulse Amplitude (led_current value) |
|-------|------------|-----------------------------------------|
| 0     | None       | Off                                     |
| 1     | RED        | red                                     |
| 2     | IR         | ir                                      |
| 3     | GREEN      | green                                   |
| 4     | None       | Off                                     |
| 5     | RED        | pilot                                   |
| 6     | IR         | pilot                                   |
| 7     | GREEN      | pilot                                   |

### Temperature Data

**`enable_temperature()`**

Initiates a single temperature reading from the temperature sensor.


**`get_temperature()`**

Returns a float representing the last temperature reading in Celsius.

### Part ID


**`get_part_id()`**

Returns the Part ID of the component.


**`get_revision_id()`**

Returns the Revision ID of the component.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTI3MTYwMzk1NywxMTg2MzI0MzcxXX0=
-->